# StepMania .ssc/.sm files extractor project

## Used technologies:
**C++, MySQL, Power BI, Excel (VBA), Python**

## Description:
In this project, I used for database my own custom packs created for the rhythm game StepMania.

The program, written in C++, extracts all necessary information from .ssc or .sm files to a ChartsData.txt and NotesData.txt files.
An .ssc/.sm file is used in the rhythm game StepMania; in short, each individual file stores all information about a song and its corresponding chart.

In the SQL folder, you will find .csv files that were converted from .txt files generated by the C++ program. These tables were then processed in SQL (Data Cleaning), and I added several interesting queries for analysis. Finally, the cleaned data was visualized in Power BI (see the Power BI visualization folder).

In the VBA folder, you will find .bas file with that macro that is used to automatically prepare data from ChartsData.txt file for further analyzing (doing most of the necessary data cleaning things). Just load .bas file in excel VBA, load ChartsData.txt into excel, run macro and follow options.
In the Python folder, you will find .ipynb file with data cleaning and analysis in Python, .txt files were generated by the C++ program.

## How does the C++ program work?
To make the extraction program work:
- you need to place sample StepMania packs containing .ssc/.sm files into the Packs folder: bin -> x64 -> Debug -> Packs -> example pack 1 -> song folder -> (this is where the .ssc or/and .sm file is located)
- run the "StepMania .ssc/.sm files extractor.exe" and follow the instructions: bin -> x64 -> Debug folder
- data will be saved in ChartsData.txt and NotesData.txt for future data cleaning and analysis!

## Folders:
- SQL Folder – .csv tables, data cleaning/data analysis queries and ready database in .sql files
- PowerBI visualization Folder – visualization .pbix file and example screenshots
- VBA Folder - .bas file with excel macro (works with ChartsData.txt data) and example

## Change Log:
- 29.04.2025 - added Python folder with .ipynb file, to show some data cleaning and alasysis with Python, I used data from different example chart packs this time
- 19.04.2025 - added VBA excel macro to automate most necessary data cleaning things for data in ChartsData.txt
- 15.04.2025 - fixed returned BPM format to "xxx,xx" and some small fixes
- 07.04.2025 - added new data that checks chart type (single or double) and fixed returning blank charter info for .sm files in some cases
- 04.04.2025 - changed project name to "StepMania .ssc or .sm files extractor"
- 04.04.2025 - fixed object counting if .ssc/.sm file has number of measures in #NOTES section
- 04.04.2025 - added support to .sm files in case there is no .ssc file (if both files are present, .ssc file is prioritized)
